[Music]
i heard earl nightingale say on a tape
if you had spent one hour a day every
day
on one subject for five years you could
become an expert on that subject
so i said wow
i want to become an expert
in leadership so for the next five years
you know i spent an hour every day
reading about leadership talking to
leaders asking leaders questions
practicing leadership and when i started
that process i i was thinking five years
earl michael said i could become an
expert in five years okay wow actually
leadership expert hello but something
happened to me about halfway through
that five year process
instead of keeping it asking myself how
long will it take how long will it take
how long will it take
one day i began to realize
how i was growing as a leader and the
change that was happening within me
and i stopped asking the question how
long will it take and i started asking
the question
how far can i go
[Music]
hey everybody welcome to impact theory
today's guest is a multiple time new
york times best-selling author who has
written more than 100 books that have
collectively sold more than an
astonishing 31 million copies one of the
world's most famous and respected
speakers and coaches he's worked with
more than six million leaders from
literally every single country on earth
his work's been translated into 50
languages and he's coached the
presidents of nations and an untold
number of business leaders including
many fortune 500 executives he's a
recipient of the horatio alger award and
the mother teresa prize for global peace
and leadership from the luminary
leadership network the american
management association recognized him as
the number one leader in business and
both inc magazine and business insider
named him the most influential
leadership expert in the world and he's
been voted the top leadership
professional six years in a row on
leadershipgurus.net
additionally he's founded multiple
non-profit organizations designed to
make positive impact through leadership
the world over so please help me in
welcoming the man that toastmasters
international awarded with their
prestigious golden gavel and who amazon
inducted into their authors hall of fame
the leadership expert john c maxwell
it is
welcome
welcome welcome great to be with you
dude it is so good to have you the first
book of yours that i read was sometimes
you
win and sometimes you learn and that
literally changed the direction of how i
thought about failures and mistakes and
just opened up a whole new world for me
and your new book on leadership is
really fantastic about how to
get the multiplication effect from
creating other leaders and i'd love to
start with what exactly is leadership
well you know tom uh
leadership's just influence
in fact i say it's really nothing more
or it's nothing less you you show me a
person that influences others and i'll
show you a person that uh leads them uh
so many people think leadership's title
or position and
you may be a leader that has a title
position but many people who have great
influence really don't have that but i
just learned very early that if i could
teach a person how to increase their
influence
then i would help that person become a
better leader so we just kind of deal in
the leadership influence world and it
works really well
what's interesting is reading your books
and hearing you talk about your
strategies but then seeing you come in
today so you say that you're in the
people business you tell a really great
story about how one of your leaders had
walked by a group of people and not said
anything
and you taught him you know that that
was a real miss opportunity and then
when you came in today you literally
went to each person and introduced
yourself
what is that power of connection
well i think first of all
it's
valuing people
uh you know you have a incredible
incredible work here and every person
here in this studio makes it happen
and
one is too small of a number to achieve
greatness and and
the moment that you understand that the
people that you have around you they're
you know they're either your number one
asset or
to be honest with they can be your
number one liability but the moment that
you understand that and begin to value
people
i think that is what creates the
connection because the moment that um
i think we all know don't you tom think
don't you think you know when a person
values you and and when a person doesn't
value you and
and so i think that giving value to
people
and expressing that to them is the
common ground that builds relationships
and so yeah when i came in the studio i
wanted to meet everybody because you've
got an incredible successful program and
i want to meet the people who help you
be who you are i love that what got you
so obsessed with leadership i mean
you've been doing this for a long time
traveling all over the world correct
it's pretty extraordinary and to go from
starting in a small town as a pastor to
what you've accomplished now what is it
that drives you
well
in 1974
i came to conclusion that everything
rises and falls on leadership now the
reason i did that is because i started
off as a pastor and by the time i was
28 i had the 10th largest church in
america whoa and so people would come to
me and say well how did you do this
and i came to the conclusion that i
learned leadership i was a good leader
and and
the day that i became convinced that
everything rises and falls on leadership
is the day i said that's what i'm going
to give my life to because think about
it if that is true then in the in the
business world and the in the education
world and the in the government world
and in every world
if you can just help people lead better
you're going to help them be more
successful when i wrote the um 21
irrefutable laws of leadership
that first law of the law of the lid
which basically says how well you lead
determines how well you succeed i truly
believe that
and so what better thing can i do than
to help people increase their influence
learn how to lead better so that they
can be more successful in whatever area
of life they really want to be
successful in so one thing that i love
about you is when people ask you if
leaders are born or if they can be made
that you make it pretty clear that first
of all yes they're born of course
but that they can be made
did you just take to it naturally did
you have a mentor like how did you i
mean at 28 have the 10th largest church
that's pretty extraordinary well i think
first of all i think there are people
who would be born with what i would call
leadership leanings they would have a a
tendency to lean or be gifted in that
area just like somebody's gifted in
music or whatever so i think that that
that starts it and i think i have that
but then i i grew up in a leader's home
in fact my father is 98 still living
whoa
and in fact until two years ago was
still working full-time and and was a
terrific leader so i grew up in a
culture and environment of leadership
and so
when i look at myself where i am today
so much of it was caught
from from not only my father but i've
had great mentors throughout my life in
fact while we're out here in los angeles
and every time i come out here i think
of john wooden who mentored me for the
last probably 11 years of his life
and
in fact when you when you talked about
that sometimes you win sometimes you
learn
uh he he did the forward on that book
and he just loved the idea of of how to
get back up after after you fail so when
you look at my home background
uh the leadership experiences that i had
because a person learns to lead by
practicing leadership
and at a very early age i was practicing
leadership and so it all comes together
and then when i began to realize
everything rises and falls on leadership
i became really intentional tom of
developing my leadership skills so i can
remember for example
i was probably i don't know maybe 26 i
heard earl nightingale say on a tape
that
if you'd spend one hour a day every day
on one subject for five years you could
become an expert on that subject
so i said wow
i want to become an expert
in leadership so for the next five years
you know i spent an hour every day
reading about leadership talking to
leaders asking leaders questions
practicing leadership but it really was
consistent and when i started that
process i i was thinking five years earl
michael said i could become an expert in
five years okay wow actually leadership
expert hello
and and so i kept you know i was kind of
like doing countdown five years four
years three years i'm thinking i'm cape
canaveral okay but something happened to
me about halfway through that five-year
process
instead of keeping it asking myself how
long will it take how long will it take
how long will it take
one day i began to realize
how i was growing as a leader and the
change that was happening within me
and i stopped asking the question how
long will it take and i started asking
the question
how far can i go
and everything changed that day i
realized
that you can set goals and have five
year goals whatever
but but i i changed from a goal mindset
to a growth mindset
and the fact that if i would be
intentional in the areas of growth that
would have the return
and and would fit who i was
then i could really be successful and
help a lot of people and and that was a
kind of a shift for me and so when i
wrote my first leadership book i thought
i would write one leadership book and
i'd be done
you know i didn't think a hundred books
later i had a lady they said you've
written more books than i've ever read
in my life you know what i mean but i
didn't have any intention to write a lot
of books
i but but growth
allows you to continue to expand
yourself
and your world until there's just you
know so much more that you know and so
much more that you want to share so you
know my journey has been really one of
understanding that that if i every day
intentionally grow
the question is just you know how far
can i go and i don't know that answer
i'm still i'm still growing i'm still
i'm still moving towards that finish
line no i love that so you talk a lot
about how i think you called it the 70
2010 principle of how we learn
so the vast majority of what we learn we
learn by actually doing um and and i
love the way that you detail that in the
book so for somebody who wants to become
a better leader especially if they're in
a company that doesn't necessarily
foster that
how do they get that practice how do
they do those reps well first of all a
lot of companies don't foster leadership
they don't have a leadership environment
they'll come to say i love your
leadership principles but
but you know i'm not a leader because i
don't have the position in fact i wrote
a book several years ago called the 360
degree leader
and i wrote it for that person that you
know kind of is in the middle how to
influence or lead people above you you
know besides you and you know kind of
around you at 360 idea helping them
understand
that that the key to leading people even
if you're not in a leadership
environment is again
influence so the question now comes down
then how do i influence people and if i
do influence people how do i increase
that influence
and my answer is very simple
we increase the influence with people
when we intentionally add value to them
on a consistent basis
because if you think about tom think
about people in your life that have a
high influence on your life
they've really added a lot of value to
you and so what i share i do a little
simple for you that kind of works and
that is every day again
you know consistency compound so you put
consistency with intentionality and
you've got a powerful combination so
every day every day i basically do five
things every day first of all i value
people
it begins there
because if i don't truly value people
i won't add value to them you don't add
value to people that you don't value you
don't add value to anything you don't
value so every day i value people that's
where it starts but then every day i i
think of ways
to add value to people
so i mean i'll look at my calendar and i
look at my agenda today and i realized i
was going to be with you and i think
well okay how can i add value to you uh
what can i do for impact theory that'll
you know just help because
again if you're constantly adding value
to people
you're going to be of great value to
people so okay i value people think of
always that value people then i look for
ways to add value people when i'm in the
setting
i'm looking for okay what can i do what
can i say and but we we
what we see is what we look for and so
if i'm looking at value guess what i'll
see ways to add value to it somebody
else might be beside you not add value
at all to you but but but i look for
ways and then number four i i do things
that add value to people
and then number five i encourage others
to add value to people
and i've just lived that simple formula
i do that every day of my life it's very
simple and i try to help other people do
that understanding that if they do that
wherever they are leadership culture not
a leadership culture doesn't really
matter they'll begin to influence and
begin to lead people to begin to
make a difference in people's lives and
i think
that's essential but i think you have to
be intentional
and i think you have to be consistent
consistency compounds
i'm 72.
and i've been doing leadership for 50
years and so when people say well how'd
you become a leadership guru and all
these things that you got i i tell them
it's just consistency
so for those people that are learning
the 360 degree leadership they're not
necessarily somewhere that's making
these opportunities readily available
for them
other than just adding value where can
they go to learn what are principles of
leadership that they should be
taking in in this sort of abstract
learning that they can then apply well i
think that there are several things
first of all
for in the beginning
i couldn't find anybody to mentor me in
leadership i mean they didn't know who i
was and so books became my mentors and
then i did something that i just
encourage everybody to do
i've done this for 40 years
is is i began to have what i call
learning lunches
and
i loved it in your green room your
statement on on on learning i just love
it but but i i would go out i would take
somebody like you tom out and
you know i'd buy the lunch
i didn't even eat i just had questions
and and i would ask you uh leadership
questions and and i would what are some
of your go-to leadership questions well
the the first question is i i always
look at somebody and i ask them you know
tell me about your greatest failure
and the reason i ask that is because i
think that the character of a person
comes out of their failures not out of
their success
and i think that the
bedrock part of a foundation of
leadership is character
and you build on it and so i want to
know about you know what tell me about a
mess up in your life
and i've had so many of them i mean
when people ask me that question it's
kind of like you know which one do i
pull out but i really like to talk to
people about their losses
because it just really tells me a lot
about who the person really is i i'm not
sure
i'm not sure success does but i know
failure so i asked that one i ask i ask
one of the questions i ask them is
who do you know that i should know
and that's led me to meet some
incredible people in my life that
somebody else opened the door that i
wouldn't have so
i just find that in asking questions in
fact i wrote a book one time good
leaders ask great questions
i just find in asking questions
uh that's the way that i can grow and
develop myself the best
and i tell leaders all the time
that before you lead people you got to
find them
and i think this is a big missing
leadership we just assume people are
already on our page and so we just start
leading and we've never found them and i
so i think there's a finding and then
these give me a little more detail on
that so you're talking about finding
what they want what they like what
they're finding out find out who they
are
you know the expression tom um
it's slowly at the top
that's not a leadership expression
although people
say it all the time in the context of
leadership in fact i tell people all the
time if you're lonely at the top it's
not a leadership issue it's just the
fact you're dysfunctional but if you
think about it if you're lonely at the
top
no one's with you no one's following you
i mean that's a hiker not a leader and
and i think one of the things that
leaders need to do one of the first
things is they need to get off the top
that's interesting what do you mean by
that well i i think that it's if i'm the
leader i don't ask you to come to where
i am i go to where you are i get on your
ground because people are more secure
in the areas that they're comfortable
and so i always go to where they live
and who they are
and and begin a relationship with them
and ask questions and and and get to
know them just get to know them because
um
you know managers try to lead everybody
the same
whereas leaders understand that you lead
everyone differently you and you lead
them according to their temperament you
according to their passion according to
their giftedness i mean they're about a
dozen things that you lead them
according that is unique to every
individual and so the only way i can
lead you correctly tom is to know you
so i know what you care about and and i
know what you value and the moment i do
that then i put all my
leadership with you
in context of who you are not who i am
so finding people really means to
intentionally
value them
and show that you value them
by uh
learning about them and and getting to
know them and doing then you lead them
with their best interest in mind which
is a beautiful way to lead people
i want to go back to what you're talking
about with character
are there particular things that you
believe every person should have
to build a strong or
not sure what the right word would be
meaningful character
i think character mainly is developed
out of adversity
i know in my life
it's been in my failures
that
that i've discovered myself
and it's been in my failures i've
discovered things that i really probably
do well but it's also been in my failure
of the various things that i've
discovered about myself that is it just
discovery though or is it like can you
build your character oh i think you
build it off of it but i think you have
to discover first i i think awareness
is always on the front end
you can't grow yourself if you don't
know yourself
so i think awareness is huge you have to
be aware of
of yourself
uh strengths weaknesses you know the
whole deal and once you're aware of
yourself
then you have to take your giftedness
and and and and maximize your strengths
and then you have to make the right
choices and but awareness is on the
front end and we don't hear a lot about
awareness how can you develop awareness
well first of all
i think you need other people's help
i i hear people all the time say well i
think i'm very self-aware and i always
get amused with that because we're not
you know we all have blind spots i have
blind spots so if there's any
self-awareness from me
it's because i've had somebody speak
into my life
and one more thing on character okay i
was i was having an interview with a
major ceo
of of a large large software company
and so i asked him i said talk to me
about your failures like i do in my
learning launches
this was on an executive circle call
where i was on the phone and and other
executives were listening
so i said talk to me about your failures
i said um what would you like to go in
your life and do over you know get the
do-overs
what what's your top do-over he said
something very interesting to him he
said well
he said i've made i've had failures and
i've had a lot of mistakes made some
wrong decisions
but i don't think i want to do any of
them over
i said you're kidding me
you mean if you could go back and
correct a failure or mistake
you wouldn't want to go back correctly
he said no he said
the lessons i learned out of my failures
probably are a lot more valuable
than if i had just made a successful
decision and moved on he said who i am
today is based upon
not having do-overs and learning out of
my adversity and difficulty and
struggles and darkness and i thought it
was a fantastic
answer it really talked to me a lot and
and i thought to myself i think that's a
perfect example of leaders
building character
out of their failure and out of their
adversity going back to what you were
saying about
asking the right questions part of just
being a good leader is the questions
that you ask talk to me about a u-turn
leader oh yeah i love what you say about
how to to really get something going in
a new direction well i think that the if
somebody said john what is that
what is the acid test of a great leader
i i think it's it's a u-turn leader and
i use the word uh you turn uh tom in in
the fact that
you take something that's going down in
other words the ship's sinking
and so you you grab hold of it and you
slow that going south down and and
finally you kind of bottom it out and so
it's no longer
losing it's probably not gain it's just
trying to
hang on
and then as a leader you begin to
turn it and begin to bring it back up i
think that's the greatest indication
that you know how to lead in fact i'm
not sure
anybody uh
proves their leadership until they
until they get something that's not
doing well
and they turn it around
what role does competency have in
leadership like at some point surely you
actually have to be good as well you
can't just be sort of this facilitator
yeah it's it's kind of like a
a surgeon who's just has great
relationship skills but hey but they're
not competent in the surgery you know i
i i want i want to get the very best i
think competence and skill set
is is what's developed over years of
practice and and implementing and
applying to your life and and again i
think that's those are things that you
learn to experience i think those are
things that you learn through mentoring
and so
when when i look at my skill set as a
leader today compared to when it started
it's been incredibly improved but it
would not have been improved if i
wouldn't have practiced leadership it
wouldn't have learned from my leadership
experiences
because i think this is another mess i
think you know experience is not the
best teacher
go on yeah it's not yeah but we hear it
in fact i used to say experience the
best teacher and then one day i woke up
and said that's a stupid statement john
if experience was the best teacher
then as
everybody got older everybody get better
and yet i know a lot of people they're
getting older and they're not getting
better
yeah
and so i stopped and i said okay
it's not the experience that's the best
teacher it's evaluating that experience
that's interesting it's you know
reflection
turns experience into insight
so how do we get good at that well we
get good at that by understanding that
experience isn't enough the point being
is is is is that
after every experience i have to pull
away
and i have to ask myself
okay what did i learn from that
because there's something to teach you
in fact when my children when we'd have
experiences with our children
i would always ask them two questions
after every experience
what did you learn and what did you love
and and you know for a kid in fact i'd
really ask him what did you love what
did you learn because kids kind of know
me oh i love that daddy this is what
this was a lot of fun so that was kind
of an easy one but i always then wanted
to i would say no what did you learn
from that
till till probably
by the time they were
after every experience they just say
okay here's what i love and here's why i
learned well what i taught my children
to do is evaluate every experience
because
if i don't stop and reflect and evaluate
out of that experience
i will
do the same thing next time
and and that's not what
is where the growth is the growth is
always in learning and evaluating and
not only
evaluating but in you know learning is
overrated unless you improve so i mean
you know
it's it's more than what did i just
learn out of that what what do i do out
of that that i improve my life
with and i think that that's a i think
that's a big miss also
that's so interesting so in the book you
really go into detail and i'd actually
like to dive into this part of it now
about how to cultivate other leaders and
as i was reading it i was like man
there's there's an element of this where
it's like you you even say it in the
book i was literally like oh please tell
me he addresses this where are you you
have the leadership table you're giving
people the chance to be a leader but
some people don't get invited to the
leadership table yeah and so how do you
deal with that like how do you keep the
organization functional how do you say
the hard things you know if somebody has
a blind spot at a minimum if they're not
effective you can't have them at the
leadership table so like how do you
manage that well first of all i think
it's fair to say that
everybody should have an invitation to
the leadership table
because it's the table it's at the table
where you learn about each other so tell
everybody what the leadership table is
well the leadership table it's a phrase
i use to let everybody sit down and just
like you come to a table to have a meal
or you go to a table to play a game
here you come to the table
to sit with other leaders and at that
table uh you're going to the discussion
is going to be leadership
and they're going to be talking about
decisions they're having to make they're
going to be asking questions about
things that they need to do as a leader
and so you're in this leadership
environment where uh and and you're
going to participate and you're going to
be able to ask questions and and you're
probably going to be given a project you
know let's okay now that the table's
done today let's go out and do this but
what happens is that that leadership
table everybody ought to be able to come
there
but that doesn't mean everybody's going
to stay there
because
there are some people who come to the
table and and
they just aren't to the capacity yet
where they need to be and so um
that's where you get into what i call
the you know the tough conversations
and and what i say to people all the
time um
is that
is that i care enough for you to be
honest with you in our john maxwell
company we do a lot of corporate
training with the five levels of
leadership and in the five levels of
leadership level number two is
relationships the connecting factor but
level number three is production
and anybody that's got to know that it's
one thing to be a friend and and it's
good to be together it's even good to
work together
but you know but you do have to produce
that we got to have some results down
the road and so that's a big gap for
many people to go from a relationship
level to a leadership level where now
we've got to get you to become effective
and fruitful and i think that if i truly
value you as a person
i i'm going to uh share with you
how you can improve
and and and and it's one thing to say i
don't like what you're doing
but it's more important say
there's some things you're going to have
to do improve there and i think you
ought to always give people a path to
improvement
and then it's their decision
you know the the two questions you ask
all the time can he or can she or and
will he or we will she you know you know
can the person is all about competence
and ability will is probably more about
about attitude but what we've discovered
uh is that
is that um it's very important to keep
an authenticity and an honesty and i
think it's also very important for the
leader to share um
their difficulties and i was i was
with johnson johnson one time speaking
about a hundred presidents of companies
it was kind of like an appreciation day
by johnson johnson so they brought in
all the companies they worked with and
so it was what they call president's day
and i was telling the presidents i said
now
you need to go home or go back to your
offices and share with the people your
weaknesses
and oh that room just bowed right up it
was so much fun i mean i mean they were
just resistance i mean they were
stiff-arming me big time so i called a
little break and said i'll sign some
books and so i had a ceo standing beside
me while i'm signing books and he's not
happy you know it's it's a rain cloud
for sure
and uh
so finally they all left he said you
know i really disagree with you about
telling people about your weaknesses he
said that he said you you and then he
gave me this kind of old-time leadership
talk about you never let him see you
flinch you know i mean so he so i'm
letting kind of go through his processes
you know i i could be his therapist for
a day
so when he finished i i said i think
you're operating your leadership under a
misunderstanding what would
misunderstand that be i said
you think your people don't know your
weaknesses word
they already know about in fact they're
talking about it
but i said the reason i want you to go
back and share your weaknesses with your
people is so that you they know that you
know it'll make them just feel a lot oh
thank god he knows you know he knows but
i think that they're i think that even
in being
having the difficult conversations with
people
um
i think yeah
when you're open with your own
areas of uh that you're working on
i think that's really i think that's
very i think that's very important
in fact we one of the things that we
teach in our companies is
have upfront expectations
and i learned a long time ago again as
all the things i'm teaching now it's
because i did them wrong in the
beginning it's not like i have this
wisdom it's like if you do it wrong you
either keep doing it wrong and never
build anything or else you'd change and
and when i started off i was very
relational so i wouldn't have tough
conversation with people i thought i'll
i'll friendship them through the process
and and then i realized that's a and and
and
so we just teach our people to have
upfront expectations and basically we
just sit down and say tom i'm glad
you're going to join the team
now we're going to have some tough
conversations down the road it's just
going to happen don't today it's a kind
of like a high five day but but we'll
have days when when we just have to sit
down and look at each other
and and deal with some issues and i just
think that if you tell people up on the
front end then when you have them it's
not so personal i mean it's personal but
at least they knew that it was coming i
think leaders
leaders prepare their people
for not only the good days and the
touchdowns but for the adversity also no
doubt about it
all right let's get really specific what
are some of the keys to fostering the
growth of leaders within your
organization
first of all i think that
tom i think 90 percent of leaders never
develop leaders
i think they just have followers and one
of the reasons is a lot of leaders don't
really want other leaders leaders are
hard to lead i mean it's like hurting
cats you know i mean they just don't
they just don't naturally fall in line
so so i i think that first of all most
people don't really develop leaders
but but in developing leaders you know
there are three things that are just
absolutely essential
um
you know in the book the latest leader's
greatest return i wrote the leader's
greatest return because i truly believe
that the greatest return ever a leader
ever gets is developing
other leaders because
that's when you really begin to compound
and i think there are three
three essentials always in developing
leaders first of all is is your own
example
people do what people see
so if i'm going to develop leaders i
have to be a good leader maybe the
greatest leadership words ever said was
follow me just just follow me watch me
because people what stamped research
says 89 of what we know we know visually
and so i i think first of all developing
leaders you have to model it the second
thing i think in developing leaders is
you have to be intentional i think that
um
you have to
commit yourself to
finding them
which i talk about in the book
letting them come to the leadership
table
discerning what kind of capacity they
have
and then i think you have to
intentionally have a program of
development for them i think you have to
have a process i think of all the money
we spend in companies in in marketing
and in advertising
and and you know i was i'm speaking one
time this is several years ago for a
and when i got was introduced to their
maybe top 300 leaders i was going to
spend an afternoon with them
the guy said something very interesting
he said to them he said you're our most
appreciable asset
and of course that's a wonderful
statement there there everybody loves
that
and and i came up behind him and i said
it's true and it's not true
i said you're really only an appreciable
asset if somebody intentionally develops
you and you intentionally develop
yourself we we don't automatically get
better
and this is a big mess i think that we
think well if i just automatically go to
work or if i automatically do my job
then i'll just grow and and you know i
had a mentor when i was in my 20s just
say you know john growth is not
automatic
you know getting older is automatic
but but getting better isn't it and
there's a world of difference so i think
that you have to be an example and i
think you have to be incredibly
intentional in saying okay i'm going to
have a leadership culture i'm gonna i'm
gonna i i i'm gonna develop leaders and
the third thing i think that is just
overlooked consistently in developing
leaders
is that you you you've got to empower
them
you you have got to
let them run the ball
because the only way you learn
leadership is by practicing leadership
so i think what a good leader does is he
sets the or she sets the stage for a
successful run you want to get some wins
under their belts for them and uh i just
think that it's
an empowering
environment
where you release people and the problem
is leaders will stop saying well but
they don't do it as well as i do it and
and said that's not the point
the only way they can ever do it as well
is that you you do it is for them to do
it
and then for you to coach them and come
alongside of them and and say okay
here's how you can do that better and
you know we have a kind of like a
five-step equipping process i do it i do
it you're with me you do it i'm with you
you do it and then you do it in someone
else's with you and it's a
multiplication process there so i think
those three things of the example the
intentionality and the empowerment
that's
i think what develops a leadership
culture that really establishes the fact
that if you want to learn how to lead
this is a place where you know
where you can do that i say this in the
book by the way
um
that when i would bring people on the
team
i would share with them that i wanted
them to work themselves out of a job
yeah
and and and pretty much i would just say
okay you've got the job i want you to do
it well let me see you do it well
but while you're doing it well you find
somebody to replace replace you and and
and that's how you boy that's really how
you develop you talk about a a farm team
of leaders and and if if you can work
yourself out of your job i'll give you
another job you know
mark cole
who he and i are
are owners of the company now and he's
the ceo and president but he started off
in in the stock room 20 years ago well
20 years ago and i was just asking him
recently in a conversation i said how
many jobs did you work your way out of
to get where you are he said nine nine
nine times and i tell people
first of all i can't promote you unless
you got somebody replace you
so the first part of promotion isn't
just getting better until they want to
bring you up first promotion is to show
me some person that we're not going to
have a big loss if i do bring you up and
you know nine times he worked himself
out out of a job found somebody else and
said okay come on up come on up come on
up until one day
he's he's where he is not bad that's
very impressive all right there's two
people i would be remiss if we don't get
to before the end of this interview one
is claude so why don't we start there
tell me about claude that was such a
great insight in terms of how many
different flavors leadership can take
and it's ultimately just about being
effective
and
and then of course the person that took
over that church after you and how it
went south wow
you read the book
yeah you talked you read the book
well this is in my first church okay so
i have very little leadership experience
and
my the bylaws of me being the pastor of
the church the bylaws tom said that i
was uh the chairman of the board
which i thought meant that i was the
leader
so i went to my first little and this
was a little country church a place
called hilham okay nobody's ever heard
of hill half so i'm way out in the
country way out just farmers
so we have about five people in our
little board meeting and i go in to be
the chairman of the port and you know
and these farmers don't have a clue what
the chairman of the board is which means
basically i opened the meeting
and and and so i of course i never was
instructed on how to have a board
meeting i mean i just graduated with a
degree and they never taught me anything
that would be practical and helpful so i
thought well what you know what do i do
so i looked and i said well
uh does anybody have anything they'd
like to share
well there was one farmer his name was
claude and he said well yeah john he
said
uh i i think that we need to paint the
front door he said you know crack's
peeling and he said people come up and
they see that door i think we need to
you know we need to take off the old
paint and paint the door
and there was a guy who sat right beside
him named benny
and benny would second everything that
claude would suggest so
so betty would say it betty her cloud
would say it betty would suggest it and
everybody said i
and i'm just kind of watching him and
then cloud says well there's a second
thing we need to be doing and he talked
about the two rooms behind the the
platform area and that we needed some
more sunday school space and we needed
to clean him out because he had junk and
so he's and you know benny seconds and
everybody and so anyway i'm watching all
this
i'm just 22 years old i'm just a kid i'm
watching all this
and finally betty looks at me he said
well he said pastor he said i think
we're done tonight he said you can close
in prayer so you know thank you god
and i walked out of that meeting
so you know when i got home i said well
how'd it go and i said wow i said i
learned a lot tonight and so what'd you
learn i said well i only need two people
she said what's actually i need god and
claude you know that just seems like
that's the way it works there
and then and so claude was a farmer
and so
about a week before the next board
meeting i called him i said can i come
down and
just hang with you while you do some
chores today oh he said i'd love that so
i did
and i went down to claude and i'd say
you know i i i would i would make a
suggestion of something that would need
to be done and
claude would say i like that he said
that's a good idea i said would you
bring that up to the
the board next tuesday night situation
i'll take care of that take care of that
and literally
i was there for three years and three
months so we went just from a handful of
people to over 300 which is big in that
community
and uh
i never brought a a in three years and
three months i never brought an item to
the to the board
i i just would open up the meeting and
ask if anybody had anything on their
heart and claude would say it and benny
would second and everybody that's right
and i
i gotta go
good board meeting good morning
so so
so i did that for three years and three
months
and it was there by the way that i
learned that leadership was influence
not title or position because i had the
title i had the position i just didn't
have any influence i'm just a kid those
farmers aren't going to listen to me
so i'm going to go to my second church
and
and so a guy named danny that i went to
college with me was going to be the
pastor so i took him to the villager inn
restaurant
and i said i said look i said this has
been a great place to start i mean these
people these are farmers they're just
simple people they were good to me and
we've grown from three to three hundred
it's it's been great
said i you know it's not you're going to
have the church not mine but i said
i just want to give you one just one
leadership thought
so i told him about claude
and how i worked with god and the more i
was talking to him i'll never forget i
mean denny's sitting up there and i mean
he's getting ready he's not very happy
boy
and and son i finally i closed the kind
of that conversation down he looked at
me look he said
i'm not gonna do it that way
he said i'm the leader of the church not
claude
and claude needs to know his place
and i just want you to know right now
that i'm not going down the farm
and and he starts to and i i remember
sitting back in that booth at the
villager in and just silent i didn't say
to him i'm just looking at him and i'm
saying to myself you're looking at a
stupid man and sure enough he did it his
way and he lasted eight months
lasted eight months and and sadly the
church went down some but but but it was
a it's a
it's a classic leadership story of of
again understanding
who has the influence and and
influence the influencer he does you
know you don't have to you don't have to
get all the credit just
but he never learned he never learned
that he went from that true he i think
he went to three within two or three
years and burned out he was done he he
was done but but he just never really
learned a very important leadership
principle yeah you don't need to get the
credit i think that is super powerful
just the result all right where's the
best place for them to get more of you
and your teaching go to john maxwell.com
they'll find everything sounds like i
think
and then your books are certainly easy
to find
one last question what's the impact that
you want to have on the world
first of all i want to
this has kind of been my
north star i i want to add value to
leaders who multiply value to others
so i have consciously
focused on leaders
because if every time you
impact a leader influence a leader it
multiplies it compounds
but my passion is to
help uh communities and help
people be transformed
by uh living and learning
great values
and so uh this is a whole different
story but i we have uh you know we we um
we trained through our one of our
nonprofit organizations in 19 years we
trained five million leaders in every
country of the world
and now we're doing transformation in
countries where we have values uh
transformational tables what we call
transformational transformation happens
one table at a time where we people six
to eight sit around and talk about
values and learn good values and start
to live out those good values
and um
we're invited by leaders of the country
presidents of the country we were in
guatemala puerto rico or costa rica and
paraguay getting ready to go to our
fourth country and we have you know we
have uh like 1.3 million people now in
round tables wow and and and uh
135 000 facilitators of these
roundtables and we're just really seeing
uh communities changed and and when and
we have it for we have it we have
curriculum for kids but it's all based
on just good values learning
here's what we know if you learn
good values and you live them out you
just become more valuable to yourself
and other people it's just that simple
so you know my passion is that
is to help people
experience a a transformational life
by embracing good values and practicing
them where everybody wins and and that's
the world i hope for that's the world i
give my life for
it's amazing
guys
100 books 100 books this guy really is
the
expert on leadership you cannot go wrong
i've read so many of his books every one
of them has been incredibly valuable few
people have shaped my thinking on
leadership more than he has i cannot
recommend enough getting involved in all
of the stuff that he's doing and
speaking of getting involved if you
haven't already be sure to subscribe and
until next time my friends be legendary
take care
john thank you so much that was
incredible thank you muhammad ali said
i'm the greatest but he never won a
championship without angelo dundee and
michael jordan never won a championship
without phil jackson so you've got to
have someone that can see something in
you that you can't see